# Biblioteca – Step 01-01

## Objectives
* **client**: n/a
* **config**: create the initial file structure upon which we can build the application
* **server**: n/a

## File Tree
At the end of this step, your file tree should look like the one below (an asterisk denotes a new file or directory).
```
biblioteca*
|––.gitignore*
|––LICENSE.md*
|––package.json*
|––README.md*
|––server.js*
```

## Files
#### .gitignore
* Create this file.
* We will add files and directories to it as we build but if you are on a Mac, add a line to ignore `.DS_Store` now.
* If you are using VSCode, consider adding `.vscode/` (see notes in Summary below).

#### LICENSE.md
* Create this file.
* Add the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) replacing the placeholders with your name and the year.

#### package.json
* Create this file by initializing the application as an NPM project.

#### README.md
* Create this file.
* Add the name of the application, _Biblioteca_ and format it as an h1.

#### server.js
* Create this file.
* We will not add anything to it at this time.

## Command Line
* Initialize the project with NPM.

## Before moving to the next step
* Verify that **package.json** has been created in the root directory.

___

## Hints
<details>
  <summary>Have you already spent 10 minutes trying to figure it out? If so, click here for hints.</summary>
    
* `cd <path/to/directory>`
* `mkdir <someDirectoryName>`
* `npm init -y`
* `touch <someFileNameWithExtension>`
</details>


## Summary
* A license let users know how the software may be used. It also tells others, including those that are reviewing your resume, that you understand why a license is important. We're using MIT because it's common and widely recognized. There are many other open source licenses available or you can create your own.
* If you create and add content to all the files before initializing the project with NPM, `package.json` will automatically populate a number of keys with values that describe the application. The most noticeable of these is a _start_ script which has been defined for us.
* We use `.gitignore` for each directory and file that we wish to keep out of version control. This is particularly important when it comes to storing credentials that our application needs and which should remain hidden from view in GitHub.
* Some of the project settings for Visual Studio Code are contained within the `.vscode/` directory. If you are working on a team and need to enforce these settings (e.g. tab spacing) for everyone, you would commit this directory to version control to achieve consistency in how the code is written. If you are working alone on a project, it's not critical but may still be helpful.
