# Biblioteca – Step 02-01

## Objectives
|              |                                                                           |
|:------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **client**   | n/a                                                                       |
| **config**   | add server-related dependencies                                           |
| **database** | n/a                                                                       |
| **server**   | build a simple server with one endpoint that sends a response             |

## File Tree
An asterisk denotes the files you will modify in this step.
```
biblioteca
|––.gitignore*
|––LICENSE.md
|––package.json*
|––README.md
|––server.js*
```

## Files
#### .gitignore
Add the `node_modules/` directory so it is not in version control.

#### package.json
Change the `start` script so that `nodemon` starts the server instead of `node`.

#### server.js
Build a very simple server, as follows:
* runs on port 3001
* logs a message to the console that the server is running
* has an endpoint at `/heartbeat` that responds to a GET request with a simple JSON object

## Command Line
Add NPM dependencies
* `express` as a production dependency.
* `nodemon` as a development dependency.

## Before moving to the next step
* Start the server and verify with Postman that the `/heartbeat` endpoint is working as expected.

___

## Hints
<details>
  <summary>Have you already spent 10 minutes trying to figure it out? If so, click here for hints.</summary>
    
* `npm install <someProductionDependency>`
* `npm install --save-dev <someDevelopmentDependency>`
* `npm run <someScriptKey>`
</details>


## Summary
* One of the advantages to building a server at the start of a project is that it allows us to find and resolve any bugs that may arise before we get too deep into client-side code. We'll have bugs there, as well, but if we know the server is solid, then we have only to look in one place instead of two.
* The `node_modules/` directory is added to a project the first time we add a dependency. The code in this directory should never be committed to source control which is why this step includes adding it to our `.gitignore` file.
* When installing dependencies, you will eventually see a `package-lock.json` file. You should commit this to source control but it's best practice if you commit it separate from other files so that tracking the history of the dependencies is easier.
