# Biblioteca – Step 03-01

## Objectives
|              |                                                                           |
|:------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **client**   | build a very simple UI that is connected to both CSS and JavaScript       |
| **config**   | n/a                                                                       |
| **database** | n/a                                                                       |
| **server**   | n/a                                                                       |

## File Tree
An asterisk below denotes a new file or one that needs to be modified.
```
biblioteca
|––css
|  `––style.css*
|––js
|  `––app.js*
|––node_modules/
|––public
|  `––index.html*
|––.gitignore
|––LICENSE.md
|––package-lock.json
|––package.json
|––README.md
|––server.js*
```

## Files


#### style.css
* Create this file.
* Add scratch code in order to confirm that the HTML and CSS files are connected.

#### app.js
* Create this file.
* Add scratch code in order to confirm that the HTML and JavaScript files are connected.

#### index.html
* Create this file.
* Add standard HTML5 boilerlate.
* Add a heading tag that contains "Biblioteca".
* Include the paths for CSS and JavaScript files.

#### server.js
* Add code that provides server-side rendering of `index.html` when the browser URL is at `/`.
* Add code that will allow `index.html` to use relative paths to load CSS and JavaScript.

## Command Line
* `touch <someFileNameWithExtension>`

## Before moving to the next step
* Change the scratch code in both `style.css` and `app.js` and verify the changes by refreshing the browser.

___

## Hints
<details>
  <summary>Have you already spent 10 minutes trying to figure it out? If so, click here for hints.</summary>
    
* `app.use("/<someVirtualPath>", express.static(__dirname + "/<somePath>"))`
</details>


## Summary
* When a server sends an HTML file to the client, like we are doing here, it's called _server-side rendering_. As you might expect, there are pros and cons to this and it all depends on the context. For what we are doing, it's exactly what we need.
* It would be perfectly fine to put `style.css` and `app.js` inside of `public/` along with `index.html`. However, putting each in a dedicated directory allows the code to scale more easily. If we decide to use JavaScript modules or integrate a CSS pre-processor on the client, we will be very happy that these files are in separate directories.
* To learn more about virtual paths to load assets, see the Express [documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/static-files.html) for more information. 
