# Biblioteca – Step 04-01

## Objectives
|              |                                                                                 |
|:------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **client**   | n/a                                                                             |
| **config**   | n/a                                                                             |
| **database** | n/a                                                                             |
| **server**   | create an endpoint that responds to a POST request by fetching data from an API |

## File Tree
An asterisk below denotes a new file or one that needs to be modified.
```
biblioteca
|––api
|  |––apiBooks.js*
|  `––apiHeartbeat.js*
|––css
|  `––style.css
|––js
|  `––app.js
|––node_modules/
|––public
|  `––index.html
|––.gitignore
|––LICENSE.md
|––package-lock.json
|––package.json
|––README.md
|––server.js*
```

## Files
#### apiBooks.js
* Create this file.
* Add an endpoint for `/api/books` that responds to a GET request searching for `author` and `title` values.
* Destructure these fields from the request body.
* The response should be limited to a maximum of 10 results and return the book data that match the search criteria.

#### apiHeartbeat.js
* Create this file.
* Remove the `/heartbeat` endpoint in `server.js` and add it to this file with a new endpoint of `api/heartbeat`.

#### server.js
* Import the dependencies that allow us to parse the request body as well as fetch data from third-party APIs.
* Import the api files that contain the new endpoints.
* Use middleware so that the app is able to use JSON parse which comes with `body-parser`.
* Create routes that delegate functionality to the imported api files. 

## Command Line
Add NPM dependencies
* `body-parser` and `node-fetch` as production dependencies.

## Before moving to the next step
* Use Postman to hit both endpoints and verify that they work as expected.
* When hitting `api/books`, make sure the code does not break if you send only one key/value pair.
* Remove the scratch CSS and JS code we added in step 03-01. We no longer need this code since we verified earlier that `index.html` can see both the stylesheet and the JavaScript file.

___

### Hints
<details>
  <summary>Have you already spent 10 minutes trying to figure it out? If so, click here for hints.</summary>
    
* `npm install <someProductionDependency>`
</details>

## Summary
* `body-parser` is an absolute must to read the data coming in through the request body.
* `node-fetch` works very much like JavaScript's `fetch`. See the [documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-fetch) for more details.
* There are multiple ways to handle routing. The solution we have provided here passes in values used by the exported functions. But is also very common to use `express.Router()` which you can read more about [here](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html).
* It's important to note that, for now, we are not concerned with error handling but we will address this later.
* Read the documentation for the [Open Library API](https://openlibrary.org/dev) to learn how this API works.
