# Biblioteca – Step 05-01 [Work-in-Progress]

## Objectives
|              |                                                                           |
|:------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **client**   | n/a                                                                       |
| **config**   | use a `.env` file to hide the port that the server uses                   |
| **database** | n/a                                                                       |
| **server**   | n/a                                                                       |

## File Tree
An asterisk below denotes a new file or one that needs to be modified.
```
biblioteca
|––api
|  |––apiBooks.js
|  `––apiHeartbeat.js
|––css
|  `––style.css
|––js
|  `––app.js
|––node_modules/
|––public
|  `––index.html
|––.env*
|––.env-example*
|––.gitignore*
|––LICENSE.md
|––package-lock.json
|––package.json
|––README.md
|––server.js*
```

## Files
#### .env
* Create this file.
* Add a value for `PORT` that equals `3001`.

#### .gitignore
* Add `.env` to keep this file out of version control.

#### server.js
* _Import_ `dotenv` and instantiate its config method at the top of the file.
* Replace the hardcoded _3001_ values at the bottom of this file with the help of the `dotenv` package and don't forget to use string interpolation for the message output to the console. 

## Command Line
Add NPM dependencies
* `dotenv` as a production dependency.

## Before moving to the next step
to be determined

___

## Hints
<details>
  <summary>Have you already spent 10 minutes trying to figure it out? If so, click here for hints.</summary>
    
`process.env.PORT`
</details>


## Summary
* `.env` is the file we use to store sensitive information. Never commit this file to version control since doing so may expose data that should be kept hidden. While it is not really necessary to put `PORT` in this file, we are practicing so that when we do come to values that can compromise the security of your application, you will know how to hide them. At the same time, it is useful to put different URLs and `PORT` values in `.env` in order to switch more easily between development and production environments.
* It is common practice to include a file that is suffixed with `-example` in order to show a developer (or developers) what the actual file (without the suffix) should look like. As such, this file is for instructional purposes only.