# Biblioteca – Step 10-01 [Work-in-Progress]

### Objective
Replace **public/index.html** with EJS templating and partials for `<footer>`, `<header>`, and `<main>`.

### Directories
* Create _biblioteca/views/_
* Create _views/pages/_
* Create _views/partials/_

### Files
#### biblioteca/server.js
* Remove the code that express uses to load **public/index.html**
* Add code so the express loads **pages/index.ejs** at `/`

#### pages/index.ejs
* Create this file.
* Import the partials so that each one renders in this order– `<header>`, `<main>`, and `<footer>`.

#### partials/footer.ejs
* Create this file.
* Add a `<footer>` tag with text that says _This is the footer_.

#### partials/header.ejs
* Create this file.
* Add a `<header>` tag with text that says _This is the header_.

#### partials/main.ejs
* Create this file.
* Add a `<main>` tag with text that says _This is the main area_.


### Command Line
Dependecies (production)
* `ejs`

### Before moving to the next step

___

### Hints
* `app.set('view engine', 'ejs')`
* `res.render('pages/index')`

### Summary
* In this step, we are going to replace **public/index.html** with an EJS template so that we have better control over server-side rendering with dynamic data.
* `app.set` is commonly used to assign a value for name. However, there are some names that have special significance to the server. In our case, the value `ejs` for the name `view engine` tells express that the extension for rendering views is `ejs`. We can omit `app.set('view engine', 'ejs')` enitrely if we explicity use `.ejs` file extensions in our paths. See the `res.render` section in the Express [documentation](http://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html) for more information.
* `res.render` looks inside of a **views/** directory by default which is why we do not need to explicity state **views/** in the path ([source](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-ejs-to-template-your-node-application)).

